In Docker, there are three major types of drivers that help manage how Docker interacts with storage, networks, and orchestration. Here’s an easy-to-understand breakdown:

1. Storage Drivers
What They Do: Manage how Docker containers store and access data.
Types: Some popular storage drivers include overlay2, aufs, and devicemapper.
Why They Matter: Different storage drivers can affect the speed, efficiency, and stability of your containers. For example, overlay2 is often used because it’s fast and efficient with disk space.

2. Network Drivers
What They Do: Control how containers communicate with each other, with the Docker host, and with external networks.
Types: Some common network drivers include bridge, host, and overlay.
Bridge: The default network driver, which connects containers to the host machine’s network.
Host: Allows containers to use the host machine’s network directly.
Overlay: Useful in multi-host setups, allowing containers across different Docker hosts to communicate.
Why They Matter: Choosing the right network driver can help improve security, performance, and flexibility in how containers connect with each other and with the outside world.

3. Volume Drivers
What They Do: Manage how data is stored and shared across containers using Docker volumes.
Types: Docker has its own built-in volume driver, but there are also third-party volume drivers like local, nfs, and cifs that let you use external storage systems.
Why They Matter: Volume drivers help keep data persistent, meaning it remains even if the container is deleted, and they can improve performance when dealing with large amounts of data.
These drivers are essential for tailoring Docker to fit the specific needs of your applications, helping you manage storage, network communication, and data persistence effectively.


perform : 

we will run a container with  >> docker run -it --name my_container busybox

        now we will ping the google by  : ping google.com      ,,, u will se its connected dot the internet from yopur containe inside

        By Default ITS using BRIDGE driver for networking  ..  means its connecting the container with your network then establishing the connection with your local networking                                                                                                                               

        now open a secondary cmd and type this command  >> docker network inspect bridge  
                                                            it will show you the contaienrs using bridge network


                                                        >> docker network ls ( it will show you the networks available for you)


>> docker run -it --network-host busybox(containerName) 
        it will run the container directtly with your host mahcine without using bridge for networking


what will beits beenfit ... ? 

if u remember when we were in bridge mode and run this command  >> docker run -it p 3000:8000 nodejs 
                                                                    to expose the port into our local network 

but in host mode we not need to do that ..


>> docker run -it --network=none busybox
    it will run but without internet connection

## create custom network 

    >> docker network create -d bridge mynetwork

    now to run this 
    >> docker run -it --network=mynetwork --name (containername) ubuntu(base image)